---
play_number: 4
title: Guiding Principles for Partnerships
---

The following principles shall guide the City’s evaluation of potential Demonstration Partnerships.

**1. Partnership purpose:** Partnerships will offer new and innovative solutions to enhance customer service, improve City operations and infrastructure, and support the quality of life in a sustainable manner. Partnerships should offer cross-sector solutions with numerous co-benefits, such as the research and development of new clean energy technologies that attract higher-wage jobs, or better connectivity of underserved neighborhoods to services and employment opportunities.

**2. Mutual benefits and consistency with City policy:** Both the City’s and the potential partner’s goals should be openly and clearly stated. The City will strive to structure proposed partnerships to be mutually beneficial for both parties. All partnerships shall be consistent with all applicable City policies and ordinances, with deviation from policy subject to any applicable City Council approvals. The City seeks to use this policy to allow short-term testing of potential deviations to policies and codes. Such testing shall be to determine suitable long-term solutions. For instance, this policy may allow for deviation from regulations to trial new types of pop-up events, prior to creation of a new permit process. Any such demonstrations shall be limited-duration trials, to inform options and next steps for the City.

**3. Public benefit:** Partnerships should provide a direct public benefit for residents and businesses in Sacramento. Partnerships may address an array of issues to improve the quality of life, including: Mobility, Housing affordability, Transitional housing and shelter, Workforce development, Higher-wage industries, Creative economy, Air quality, Water resources, Urban agriculture, Public health, Energy efficiency, Clean energy, Public safety and emergency response, Arts and culture amenities, Youth programs and services, and Education.

**4. Equity:** Partnerships should provide concrete goals and measurable outcomes to reduce disparities and build equity in the City’s diverse communities. Partnerships should also seek a fair distribution of the benefits of actions across stakeholder groups, allowing for access to resources in a way that is not reliant on position or social group. Multi-lingual and graphic-based communication tools are encouraged. To the extent feasible, the City supports siting of any capital improvements or design of new services to benefit disadvantaged communities. Consideration should be given to neighborhood- scale solutions. Efforts that address existing inequities will be encouraged, such as the expansion of parks in underserved communities, or development of private community gardens in “food deserts” without grocery stores. As appropriate, partnerships should support capacity-building by connecting existing community needs and activities to new resources and opportunities.

**5. Local Business Enterprises:** The City encourages partnerships with local business enterprises (LBEs). The City recognizes that not all partnerships may be suitable for LBEs. Demonstration opportunities may arise from other enterprises, and the City’s LBE Program may not apply to each Demonstration Partnership proposal or agreement. However, the City encourages creative proposals that consider and include LBEs, to the extent feasible.

**6. Flexibility:** Partnerships should be flexible and responsive to evolving need. Partnerships should also be designed to encourage a competitive system. All components of a partnership should be implemented in a modular manner, prioritizing open standards where possible, to ensure interoperability and prevent dependency on a single vendor.

**7. Mitigated Risk:** At its discretion, the City may consider requests to share the potential liability of Demonstration Partnerships in recognition of the public benefits. The City will consider such requests by applying processes used for other similar agreements made by the City. To mitigate City risk, the City may require any partner using a City asset to support operations and maintenance. Depending on the type of the agreement, the City may also require partners to remove any equipment or materials installed on City assets and return the property to its original condition.

**8. Timeframe:** Demonstration Partnership Agreements shall be for a limited duration. The purpose of testing and deployment shall be to identify appropriate long-term solutions. Short-term testing should allow for evaluation of ideas and help bring new solutions to scale. If an external party provides resources to advance a demonstration, such as capital funds, grant funding, or technology deployment, the term of the partnership may occur for a longer duration, if appropriate. Nonetheless, partnership timeframes should seek an optimal balance between project deployment, evaluation, and an open market place that invites new ideas and allows for change over time.

**9. Performance Measurement and Evaluation:** Evaluation of performance measures is critical to gauge the effectiveness of Demonstration Partnerships. At the outset of each agreement, a set of performance measures will be established. The City may require reporting of minimum data during project implementation. At the termination of each agreement, the partner shall submit a report evaluating the project against the stated performance measures, along with any additional information. While the City may consider non-disclosure agreements to protect proprietary or confidential information, the City is committed to transparency and open data.
