---
play_number: 5
title: Minimum Partnership Criteria 
---

The City may enter a Demonstration Partnership agreement (agreement) to test, evaluate, and/or demonstrate innovative solutions, if the agreement meets the following minimum requirements.

### 1. The agreement shall fall within one or more of the following categories.

1. “Pilot Project” refers to a product, process, service, or information technology that the City may want to explore for further application, subject to a limited duration.
2. “Demonstration/Testing” refers to a limited duration trial by an outside party to test, evaluate, and/or demonstrate an innovative solution that involves City facilities, right-of-way, equipment, or related City assets.
3. “Joint Development” refers to the joint development of City assets by external entities, such as the acquisition, lease, sale, or shared use of City real property or right-of-way. Joint development may also include co-development of solutions with the City in the form of partnership for staff expertise, residences or fellowships with the City, or co-development of products or technologies.

### 2. Agreements shall meet the following criteria.

1. Implement goals and policies adopted by the City Council, such as those within the General Plan. Relevant goals and policies shall be clearly identified and inform partnership parameters.
2. Demonstrate clear community need and business case. The business case shall provide information on project rationale, objectives, the expected value of the services and assets offered through the partnership, responsibilities, and process or methods for implementation,
3. Identify stakeholder and user groups that will be impacted by the effort and establish an engagement process or feedback measures for those groups.
4. Provide direct or anticipated benefits to the City, its residents, and the community. Benefits shall include measurable economic, social, and environmental outcomes. Examples include, but are not limited to: ridership levels, household cost savings, jobs created, energy savings, and number of low- income households served.
5. Operate for a limited duration, with clear milestones for implementation, project completion, and evaluation.
6. Include a monitoring and implementation plan that addresses data sharing. The agreement will provide open data, and include key project metrics in an accessible format.
