---
play_number: 6
title: Partnership Process
---

The City will use the following process to consider, evaluate, and enter into Demonstration Partnership agreements.

### 1. Phase 1: Opportunity Identification
The City will support a collaborative approach to identify partnership opportunities. At a minimum, staff will use the following measures.

1. When appropriate, City staff will use performance-based requests for proposals or requests for information to invite input from potential partners. Such requests should provide clear problem statements for input and avoid assumed solutions or prescriptive tasks. At the direction of the City Manager, staff will engage external stakeholder groups for guidance and recommendations, such as the Mayor’s Tech Council or other advisory bodies, as appropriate. Stakeholders can advise for identification of near-term priorities and opportunities pursuant to this policy.
2. Staff may explore alternative procurement processes for unsolicited proposals, which would allow for submission of proposals at the initiative of the submitter for developing a partnership that is not in response to a formal or informal request issued by the City. Such processes should include an established review period for staff consideration and response to proposals that meet specified criteria for submission.
3. At the City Manager’s direction, department heads will identify staff to participate in an internal stakeholder working group on demonstration partnerships. The frequency of meetings and representation from departments will be as needed, based on project opportunities, status or schedule of any proposals, or other direction from the City Manager and department heads. The working group will coordinate to evaluate needs and opportunities, and consider cross-sector partnership proposals.
4. Information on Demonstration Partnerships will be maintained and shared publicly in an up-to-date and transparent manner on a City website.

### 2. Phase 2. Partnership Evaluation and Procurement
Upon receipt of a Demonstration Partnership proposal, the City will evaluate and consider approval of an agreement as follows.

1. Considerations for specific partnership categories:

- Pilot Projects should follow existing policies and procedures, unless City Council approves any deviations.
- Demonstration/Testing Projects should first be subjected to an initial assessment, prepared by the proponent, to identify the potential costs and benefits to the City in engaging in the project prior to agreement execution. Estimated cost factors that should be considered include staff time, out of pocket expenditures, risk to the City, and lost opportunity of providing core services. Projects that are found to have costs that outweigh the benefits should not be engaged in as a Demonstration/Testing Project.
- Joint Development Opportunities must identify potential for a contribution toward City goals and/or offer the potential for a benefit for use by the City. To the extent that the City might not otherwise engage in such a project, the relevant City departments may identify resources for the City to engage in the project.

2. Receipt of a Demonstration Partnership proposal does not commit the City to fully evaluate or recommend the project. City staff shall lead consideration of proposals, at the direction of department heads and the discretion of the City Manager.
3. When City staff identify a Demonstration Partnership of interest, the relevant department head will consider recommendations for his or her respective service line. Any recommendations to proceed with a partnership shall be made by department heads to the City Manager.
4. Based on internal interests and requests from potential partners, the City Manager initially will determine whether to negotiate with a potential partner or pursue, to the extent feasible and practicable, a competitive process. Where the City Code or state law mandates a competitive process (such as City Code Chapters 3.56 or 3.60), any variance shall be authorized and approved in accordance with applicable Code provisions.

### 3. Phase 3: Agreement Approval
Demonstration Partnership agreements shall be approved based on agreement characteristics, as follows.

1. City Council shall consider approving a Demonstration Partnership agreement when an agreement meets one or more of the following criteria:

- Involves City revenues or expenses of $100,000 or greater,
- Exposure of the City to significant risk, and/or
- Requiring deviation from City policies.

2. For agreements that are not subject to any City Code restrictions, this policy authorizes the City Manager to enter into a Demonstration Partnership agreement, when the agreement meets each of the following criteria:

- Consistency with the objectives, guiding principles, and minimum criteria established in this policy, and
- Involves no-cost to the City or City revenues of less than $100,000 per year, and
- Does not expose the City to a significant risk, and
- Does not require a deviation from City policies.

3. Any type of agreement not otherwise addressed herein shall be approved pursuant to existing City polices and procurement procedures.

### Phase 4. Demonstration Partnership Implementation
The City Manager shall be responsible for leading implementation of this policy. The City Manager shall:

1. Designate appropriate lead City department(s) to coordinate specific opportunities, in consultation with other City departments and offices, the Mayor, and City Council.
2. Provide guidance to City departments for interpretation and application of the policy.
3. Direct City staff to support policy implementation, and, in coordination with the Independent Budget Analyst, evaluate performance outcomes.
4. Regularly report to the City Council regarding the implementation of this policy and the status of all partnership agreements approved to date.
